Donator Perks

First, a philosophical digression

People don't donate, generally. There are very few people in the world who give something for nothing. Many public displays of altruism are done for some hidden goal, like status, image, or tax benefits. Donation-driven gaming is, by and large, a staggering failure. Those who rely on it always end up overestimating the public's capacity for selflessness

Making money from a game is a tricky issue. People rather enjoy getting something for nothing, and trying to make them pay for it - no matter how justified - engenders a certain degree of annoyance and resentment. Whether it comes from jealousy at seeing others have something they don't, concerns about donators affecting the metagame, or even just anxiety that development time is being spent on something they won't get to see. There are also plenty of purists who believe money being anywhere near their game taints it
This is generally offset by the quality of the product, professional games make money on being worth the cost of the paywall infront, or by selling ingame microtransactions (which are generally hated). No matter how you do it, and no matter how much you deserve it, asking people for money is going to annoy them. There is no way around this. Its a matter of where to draw the line, and how much you're willing to annoy them in order to make an income. How much they're willing to tolerate is dependant on the quality of the product. 


Secondly, some numbers

I've done extensive market research on this community. At the highest end, big SS13 servers tend to make 200-400 dollars a month. This is quite consistent across many servers, and seems to be a soft ceiling on how far you can get from generosity alone

Many have criticised lifeweb for its donation models, selling silly ingame perks like a bigger penis, as well as access to special classes and antag roles. But it did work quite spectacularly.  At one point it was making well over a thousand dollars a month

A thousand is the ballpark figure for perk-enhanced donation models. This much income is quite common to make from gameservers which sell advantages to their players. Many games like TF2, minecraft, left 4 dead, etc, have such profitable servers. This is usually accomplished by selling powerful ingame advantages, and is likely harmful to game balance and general community integrity

There's a middle ground

Generally, I propose a single tiered subscription model. Anyone who pays a certain amount to the patreon monthly (say 10 dollars) is awarded donator status, and gains full access to whatever donator perks we have. The status persists as long as they keep up the subscription. If they stop, benefits are removed one month after their last payment,

This list is divided into three categories. Donator perks, by their nature, tend to scale linearly in both desireability for those who would pay for them, and resentment generated by those who don't have them. Conversely, things that won't upset people also tend to not be very enticing to bring potential donators in. 
I am very confident that the things in the highest tier would bring in a lot of donations, though that doesn't necessarily imply that they'd be a good fit here. Presentation of an option in this document does not imply endorsement of it
We can pick and choose from each list

Simple and uncomplicated
	Nobody will really mind this stuff. It won't upset anyone. But these things tend to not be very desireable either. Nobody is likely to donate just to get the things in this category, they'd really just be neat perks for those who already decided to donate.
	
	Chat colors:
		slightly different chat color in OOC. Maybe choice, or specifically set by us
		
	Discord Roles: 
		A special discord role for donators, complete with its own name color. Possibly also a channel for donators

	Accreditation:
		The names of donators could appear in the server credits - both in html, and in the end of round credits text crawl

Minor ingame things
	These things may cause minor annoyance to some people. Mostly the case will be that players don't mind the existence of these features, but they'll want them for themselves and be upset that only donators get them.
	
	Chat Fonts:
		Rarely done but perfectly applicable. It is possible to use different fonts ingame. An alternate font would be far more noticeable than a different color
		
	Signal Sprite Selection:
		We have ketrai's randomly selected signal sprites, 25 of them. Players are assigned one at random on joining necromorphs.
		It wouldn't be hard to make a donator-only preference option which allows a player to choose the one they want to always have.
		
		In a slightly more controversial move, we could also have some donator-only signal sprites, generally in a different color to make them stand out. This would be pretty popular among the necro players
		
	Necromorph Customisation:
		We have visual variants of a few necromorphs already. Fleshy slashers and brutes. In addition, we have two outfits for slashers, and a system to support more in future
		These features are available to all players, but are controlled by random chance. Slashers have 50% chance to spawn naked, and the outfit they get is picked at random
		
		I could design a donator-only interface to allow them to control this process. Creating a loadout of variants and outfits to be used whenever they get control of the appropriate necromorph
		
		Its worth noting that there is some minor balance affecting potential here, clothes come with built in armor values. But these outfits are run through the oldificator code which randomly reduces most of those values, to a degree that i wouldn't consider it a significant issue
		
	Object Customisation:
		Copying straight from EA itself!
		The dead space games sold a lot of DLC which was largely skins for rigs and weapons. Lots of alternate color schemes for isaac's guns
		This kind of thing is already established in baycode through the loadout system (see above). On other servers, people have had custom skins for ingame items, by way of getting a special personal mod kit in their loadout, which can be applied to the appropriate item ingame to transform it. This allows custom appearances for things with huge balance effects like mechs and weapons
		
		Its also worth noting that many of the Dead Space weapon skins came with stat mods. Typically +5-15% to some stat like damage, magazine size, firing/reloading speed, etc. Its entirely optional whether we also bring in that feature, it would certainly add some authenticity, but it would also move this feature to the controversial section
		
		This is one feature that doesn't have to be entirely limited to donators. The alternative variants - with their stat mods, can be made rarely available in random loot. Every pulse rifle that spawns anywhere could have a small chance (5%?) to instead be replaced with the EarthGov variant with its damage/reload speed bonus. The custom mods for donators can simply be a more reliable way of getting these variants, rather than an excluive means
	

Controversial, balance affecting:
	
	Loadout points:
		The existing loadout system allows players to pick various items that they'll spawn with at roundstart.  It's a mature feature and includes such options as having role-locked items. For example, people can spawn with a medical hud only if they're playing a role which would normally have access to medical so it doesn't give them something they couldn't get.
		
		It works based on points, each player gets 5 points to spend. Most items cost 1 point, although those which have mechanical or balance effects cost more. 
		It would not be hard at all to allow donator players to have more points, and thus be able to start with more/better stuff, while still drawing from the same content pool.
		
		That said, we'd also need to do some work on expanding this content pool. By far the most popular item is the boot knife, which gives a pretty useful backup weapon for 3 points. Players definitely want things with mechanical effects in there. We experimented with this on CEV eris, and it was HUGELY popular. Being able to start with flashlights, crowbars, toolmods, medkits etc, vastly increased player engagement with the system. Although i'm sure the bay developers would disagree, I think adding useful mechanical items to this content pool is a good move. It would be a great place to add hidden unitology stuff. Holy books, robes, ritual daggers, etc
		
		When the system is more fleshed out, people will pay to have more points for things they can take in. The resentment about donators will be fairly low since normal players have access to the same stuff, just a smaller quantity
		
	Skillpoints:
		A system we've not worked on much yet, but when we do, it'd be simple enough to give donators more points to spend on skills. or to allow them to diversify a bit more

	Extra Credits:
		In an oddly appropriate opportunity for meta-roleplaying, donators could be given more credits - the ingame currency, to buy stuff with This is not currently useful but is something that will become more meaningful with future overhauls and the store machine system.
		If chosen, this would probably be be implemented as a bonus on each salary cycle, or as a flat lump sum added to starting balance

	Necromorph Prioritisation:
		Allow donators to set High priority on necromorph roles. When a player is randomly picked from the necroqueue, high priority makes them more likely to be chosen.
		This could be done on a HARD basis (donators are always picked if they want the role) or a SOFT basis (donators get higher weighting in the random selection)
		
		This could even be applied to marker selection. I know a few players who would give you their money in a heartbeat if it meant they could play as the marker
		
		One interesting thing to note - and this applies to all kinds of prioritisation - is that this kind of feature could help the game environment if done right. By allowing necros/jobs/antags to more often go to donators that really want them, it also means that these roles are getting into the hands of players which understand them. It would reduce instances of clueless fumbling in important roles like brute, and instead allow an experienced player to do things well. effectively raising the skill level of the playerbase
		
	Role Prioritisation:
		At roundstart, when more people have readied up for a job than there are slots available, who gets the job(s) is picked at random
		Like above, it wouldn't be hard to give donator players priority, making them either more likely, or completely guaranteed to get the role when competing with normal players.
		
	Antag Prioritisation:
		The third in this set. Priority for antag roles, IE unitologists. There's quite a sizeable sub-community here who enjoy roleplaying cultists, and would definitely pay for higher chance of unitology rolling.
		
	Signal Energy:	
		Psi energy is used for signal abilities, and presents a huge content pool. It wouldn't be hard to give donators a bit more of it - more energy generation, and a higher cap, so they can use signal abilities more often
		
	Scavenger Bot:
		The little robot from DS3 could be added here too. It could be given orders to collect certain items, and go scurrying around maintenance or the surface of aegis VII looking for what you wanted. Having little bots scurrying around the ship would add some life to things
		
	Persistent Storage:
		Some means of persistently storing items could be granted to donators. A special kind of locker or security deposit box. Items placed in it would be persistent between rounds, and could be retrieved in future rounds.
		
		Many kinds of limits or restrictions could be placed on this. For example, preventing weapons from being stored. Though that would certainly be the most common use if it were allowed
		
SPECIAL:
	Custom Items:
		This does not belong in any category because it is not a good subscription service. for a lot of reasons.
		
		Many servers do custom items and do them quite well, many even do them for free. 
		Getting something personally custom made is hardly a cheap endeavor though, it costs development time. It is very justified to charge for this. A one-time fee for the creation of any custom item, which can then be used forevermore. Probably in the range of $20-100 depending on complexity and work required
		
		The one time fee means we can avoid a lot of common problems - a proposal can be reviewed before accepting any payment, and we can let the player know if the thing they want would be too silly/unbalanced/unfeasible for the server. Paying doesn't entitle people to break the rules or the roleplay environment
		
		Once paid for, a custom item is useable forever, it doesn't require donator status to buy one, or to access it anytime thereafter
		
		Another common policy we should adopt is a timeout clause. If the owner of a custom item doesn't play on the server for some time period - commonly six months to a year - they lose exclusivity for the item, and it is added to the general content pool for everyone to use, if its appropriate for that. They'll still have access to it, but so will other players, 